We're gonna be talking about sourcing,
it's kind of goes along a little
bit with the networking.
That's absolutely a form of sourcing, but
I wanna think about how do you source?
How do you find candidates that might be
potentially a good fit for your role?
Oftentimes, companies will have
recruiters doing a lot of this work,
maybe you have partners
that are doing that.
But I do try and
do this still a little bit,
I wanna kinda look what's out there,
spend some of the time doing it.
Maybe not entirely me doing it,
that is nice to have those partners.
But I thought I should share some general
tips the way I've thought about it, so
it's gonna take a lot of time, yeah,
let's just start baseline there.
It's not easy, there's a lot of people
out there that you might be looking for.
You have the applicants,
obviously that are applying, but
I also really like to go out there,
and look at things, and try and
see what's in the market, and see what
people might be right for my role.
I like to get creative,
I'm trying to think of some
examples of things I've done.
Maybe looking at events or
meet ups, things like that,
you don't necessarily need to attend them.
You can even just look like, maybe there's
a react event in your city, who attended?
Grab those names, look them up on LinkedIn
to see if there maybe have the background
that you're looking for.
So I think I like to get creative and
try new things, see what works,
going to LinkedIn is what everybody does,
so try something different.
Even if you don't have an open role, same
thing as networking, keep an eye on this.
I don't know what the right
percentages to do, but
It's something that you can be
doing on a regular cadence.
So when you are hiring,
you've at least got something a little
bit of a foot in the door on that.
Look at your network, is important, right?
[LAUGH] Just start there, but
also, you wanna be building and
broadening your network, right?
You talk about hiring for
diversity and inclusion,
you don't wanna just look to your
networks, try and expand that network.
Look at candidates from past roles,
I know this has come up
earlier that companies have.
Candidate software where they're tracking,
look at past candidates that
have interviewed for a roles.
Maybe you passed on them for
some reason or maybe they declined,
they took a role at some other company.
Go back and look,
that can be a really great starting point.
Referrals, referrals, referrals, this is
my favorite one, I will go to my team
as like, hey, do you know anyone that
would fit this role or partners, etc.
Referrals are so helpful, people
already have insights into this person
that you might be wanting to hire,
so it often leads to a great hire.
What I like to do too, it's hard, we all
have so many things going on, to source,
and to find the time to do that or
even ask our team to do that.
So sometimes, I'll even set up time
with my team or others to just say,
can we spend an hour, half an hour?
Look at your LinkedIn networks, look at
what other network that you have, and
just put some names in a spreadsheet.
And it's nice too, that I'll probably
have like, if Jem added five names,
I'd probably want his name beside them.
So that I know like,
are you really close with this person?
Would you feel comfortable introducing us?
But definitely doing things like
this can be really, really helpful.
All right, this is our portion of
where I'm gonna ask a manager.
Also probably gonna ask the audience
just around some sourcing
ideas that you've had or found effective.
But, yeah, let's ask Jim,
when have you had a new role?
How do you start sourcing for
candidates, Jem?
>> That's a trick question,
Ryan, if I have a new role,
I've already sourced candidates.
>> Ooh, smart answer, I love it.
>> But I look at,
I think critically about the role, so
a lot of that I've already
gotten from my job description,
where it's forced me to think about,
what am I looking for?
What are the things that
are additive to the team?
What sort of technologies or
skills who do I need?
From there, I started looking,
LinkedIn is an okay place.
It's good for a lot of people, but I
prefer probably more personal connection.
So before that,
I've already done external things,
we have a podcast together,
which helps raise our visibility.
When I say like, hey, I'm hiring,
people already know me,
which is actually pretty helpful, but
not super scalable for a lot of people.
But if there's conferences and
the technology that I'm looking for,
I tend to go to those conferences.
So recently I was hiring for
someone who's an expert in Graph QL.
So I go to Graph QL conference and started
looking for people in those those skills.
But I think my favorite is probably
internal and referrals, and
I think that's the next question,
so I will.
>> Well, when you say internal too,
Jem, is that like looking for
internal talent that already exists at
your company and you'll be like, wait,
maybe they need a role change,
is that what you mean by internal?
>> Yeah, and ideally,
I've already know those people,
because I meet with a lot
of people all the time.
So it's kind of the,
you're always hiring in some degree and
not necessarily even
they might not know it.
But you might have something that
comes up and you're like, hey,
I know you've kind of hit
a ceiling in your team.
I have a role opening up,
what do you think about joining my team?
How does that sound to you?
And if you already do the pre-work,
it's not a big, my god,
I gotta hire all of a sudden.
It's not like a big shock to your system,
because you're always kind of on
the lookout for people who would be a good
fit for either you or our partners team.
>> I like that, and I've definitely
had a lot of great hires internally,
even where I've had an engineer I've
hired externally and joined my one team.
And then I moved to another team, and
then they're looking for a change, and
it works out really well.
Also, you don't have to interview as
much or you shouldn't have to, right?
Ideally, they're already good for the
role, because they're at the company, so
I love that you called that out.
What's some advice you have for sourcing
other than you should always be sourcing
or networking,
which I'm hearing from you as well.
But what's some other advice that you
would share with other hiring managers or
engineers looking to build up candidates?
>> This one's a little counterintuitive,
but if you have a high profile or
high visibility within your company, or
even externally, it makes sourcing so
much easier.
For example,
my most recent role when I was hiring,
a lot of people internally
knew about it already,
because I had shared it in the Slack
channels, I shared with other managers.
So they're able to share that out as
well and that makes it a lot easier.
Some of the best sourcing I get is
referrals from people within the company,
because they know what the culture is,
they know what the team needs,
they know who I am.
So they can find people like,
hey Jim, I have a friend,
I think they'd be a good fit, because they
know a lot about me already beforehand.
And that's really been the strongest
source of hires for me has always
been referrals, because it's kind of
like a built-in filter ahead of time.
>> Do you think about when you're
talking to people internally that you're
ultimately trying to build
your persona up with them or
kind of sell your team just on
an ongoing basis, or is that explicit,
or you just think it just
kind of happens naturally?
>> Yeah, as a manager, you're always
selling your team, or you should be.
People should be aware of what your
team does, and it doesn't mean you push
it in a shady sort of marketing way and
like, hey, my team's doing this.
But generally, it's a good idea at every
level for people to know what you do, and
that's helpful in hiring.
It's helpful with your manager and
managing up, it's helpful with executives
who know who you are on your team.
That all goes a long way, and that happens
a lot in one-on-ones in conversations.
>> That's great, I really like that,
so it is somewhat explicit, but
it's also just naturally happening,
right on, thanks, Jem.
>> Thanks, Ryan.